Morn, sweetly blushing, leaves her dewy bed,
Air's thousand tongues her welcome advent tell;
But, hark, from yonder mansion of the dead
Why tolls so dismally the village bell?

It was not wont thus to appal my ear,
As, with the dawn, I oft have hailed its chime,
Or oft, at eventide, have linger'd near,
To count each stroke, that mark'd the flight of time.

But now, through wood and glen, with heavy sound,
Its long dull echoes load the morning breeze,
That seems in sighs to ask the hills around,
"When heard ye e'er such sickening notes as these?"

For none before this peaceful vale had known,
Save such as speak of fleeting hours the while
Or such as summon, with their solemn tone,
The neighb'ring hamlet to yon sacred pile

Or, haply, save some more impressive chime,
That greets the parted spirit to its home;
But ne'er before, through long remember'd time,
Such sound as this had left yon village dome.

But, hark again!  it is the convict's knell,
The warning voice of death &mdash; and lo!  'tis past;
Now, child of sorrow, quit thy prison-cell,
Thy cup of bitterness to drain at last.

A few short moments make thy life a dream,
Which the oblivious dawn hath chased away;
Yet, as the vision flies, perchance a gleam
Shall turn the coming prospect into day.

Nor let fastidious virtue here deny
Some little solace to so drear a doom,
Nor think, the beam, that lives beyond the sky,
Ne'er cheers the passage to the convict's tomb.

Some there may be, whose deeds, of blackest hue,
Cloud with reflective gloom their parting hour;
Yet even these, in their dark fate, may view
Some ray, that glimmers from hope's beacon-tow'r.

Though their career was mark'd with many a stain,
Though infamy hath closed their transient day,
Yet, who shall say, repentance wept in vain,
To wash their errors or their crimes away?

And few are they, to guilt howe'er allied,
That die the sullen martyrs of despair,
Nor seek, ere life hath spent its ebbing tide,
What balm may flow from penitence and prayer.

If, then, for these meek charity may plead,
Their fate remember'd, but their lives forgiven,
Say, shall they ask in vain the pious meed,
Whom dark affliction led astray from heaven?

And such was he, whom now yon awful chime
Hath summon'd to his ignominious tomb:
He once was happy &mdash; once was free from crime,
And hope still pointed to a fairer doom:

Yes, he had known, ere came time's chilling blight,
To crop the promise of his vernal hour,
Each buoyant thought, still teeming with delight,
That loves to hover near life's opening flower.

But, what avails it, that the muse's page
Records, that once it was his lot to roam,
Where heaven had giv'n him a paternal sage
And all the early treasures of a home?

Yes, what avails it all?  for him in vain
The muse may now a father's worth recal;
For, whether mingled with the sportive train,
Or at his task, a father guided all.

Yet now of pastime pure, or moral lore,
What vestige lives to tell his happier day?
Vain all the light instruction gave, no more
It sheds for him one kind consoling ray.

Then deem not those unbless'd, whose humbler wing
Was ne'er for science's proud flight design'd:
If not to these heaven opens wisdom's spring,
She keeps the coarser torrents from their mind.

Had he, who now invites my mournful song,
In ignorance's vale obscurely stray'd,
No lure, mayhap, had tempted him to wrong,
Nor misery found him in his lowly shade:

Perchance he still had walked as Nature led,
Nor turn'd aside to error's darkling way,
True to the path, where noiseless virtues tread,
And meek Contentment hymns her evening lay.

But him, alas!  his wayward fate had thrown
On the wide ocean of the boist'rous world;
Then fled each tranquil scene the past had known,
As life's rough bark her sweeping sail unfurl'd.

Too long he dared the treacherous gale to brave,
Nor deem'd misfortune's lowering tempest near;
But, ah!  it came, and, with its whelming wave,
The wreck of all to fame and honour dear.

Then learn to prize their calmer joys, who lead,
From such wild tumult free, their humble life,
By cares unvex'd, as waves the slender reed
In peace beneath the angry whirlwind's strife.

Yet here let Candour pause, nor blush to ask,
If aught may palliate his ignoble doom:
For heaven and charity have taught the task,
To drop the tear of pity on the tomb.

And let it fall; for here no love of crime,
That robs our nature of its brighter part,
Had torn away each attribute sublime,
To wreathe its toils around the victim's heart.

No thirst of blood, no savage lust of gain,
Had there impell'd the culprit to his fate;
For then Compassion had not wept in pain,
Nor Mercy sighed to close her golden gate.

But lo!  Affliction here had mark'd her prey,
Here sunk a wretch beneath her deadly blow;
Yet long he pined (for long is Misery's day)
A friendless wanderer in this vale of woe.

And much he bore ere virtue's generous flame,
By sorrow quench'd, no longer glowed to save,
Ere Nature's struggling pangs reposed in shame,
And one sad deed prepared his early grave.

Yet not unwept he falls, nor think the tear,
That dews his urn, to causeless anguish given;
It is a drop to sweet affection dear,
A drop to prove, her tenderest ties are riven.

But, haply, thus some bard, in after time,
As pensive wanderings lead him to the spot,
Shall o'er his tomb preserve, in hasty rhyme,
The plain, but hapless record of his lot.

"Here rests a youth, who lived the child of woe,
Whose death was stamp'd with ignominy's stain;
Yet he had known each fairer gift below,
But science smil'd, and virtue warm'd, in vain.

"Still, who shall say (to man 'twas never given),
That endless vengeance waits on rash offence?
Grant he hath err'd, but who shall say, that heaven
Shall ne'er to him her saving power dispense?

"Though some there be, whose firmly pious path
One even  tenour holds from youth to age,
No crossing fear have they of coming wrath,
As busy conscience turns o'er memory's page:

"Clear is their hope as evening's cloudless sun,
And, as it lights them hence, it sends a ray,
Whose gleam still lingers, though their course be run,
In golden earnest of a brighter day.

"Yet, pilgrim, stay &mdash; nor pass disdainful by,
Heedless of him, whose ashes here repose;
Nor deem in fault the heart, that yields a sigh
In secret pity to the convict's woes.

"For learn, he once had known (as thou may'st know)
Each nameless transport dearest kindred share,
Each home-born bliss, that gilds our fate below,
Or spreads a smile across the brow of care.

"But want o'erwhelming came:  his all to save,
He sinn'd, he fell &mdash; and so may fall the best;
For wife and child beloved he fills this grave&mdash;
Now, stranger, pass, and leave to heaven the rest."
