Drear are the days when Liberty is gone;
A Prison's gloom makes darkness still more deep:
The Prison and the Grave are but as one;
Save that the Grave allows th' opprest to sleep.

Talents and goodness, spirit, worth, combin'd,
Avail not him, these iron walls contain;
Unpractis'd virtues here desert the mind,
Whilst listlessness holds up her cank'ring train.

No social elegance inhabits here,
No varied richness of all-polish'd life:
But rankling anguish, and the taunt severe,
Faise the rude storm, and swell the vulgar strife.

Where'er I turn within this dreaded cage,
Distracted Pen'ry lifts the glist'ning eye;
"Tis not to live," it howls in hopeless rage:
More mournful still &mdash; "Alas!  'tis not to die!"

Hear his resolve, whose mis'ries shake his mind,
Squalid in filth, with acrid hunger wan:
Be mine revenge, revenge on all mankind!
"Mankind, the common enemy of Man!"

I hear and weep for thee: &mdash; but oh!  be calm,
Whilst deeper griefs thy conscious mis'ries end;
My direr suff'rings be of thine the balm,
For he that tortures me was once my friend.

His friends I loved, his enemies I spurn'd;
My lib'ral bounty hail'd his early youth;
To him my eyes with constant kindness turn'd,
Saw not, with poison fraught, the serpent's tooth.

Oppression's storms, and Fraud's more fatal sands,
Ingulph my fortune, all my ventures drown!
Strugg'ling and weak, I call for help &mdash; his hands&mdash;
Horror of horrors! &mdash; see, they plunge me down!

The merely festive board no friend creates:
(For this sad truth did gen'rous TIMON live;)
The simp'ring parasite devours and hates,
Thinks nothing giv'n, whilst ought remains to give.

I too had friends:  the social board bespread:
They hover'd round, and lov'd the lib'ral host:&mdash;
Robb'd of the means to give, the herd has fled;
All kindness gone, and ev'n Remembrance lost!

Corporeal tortures cease no less than pleasure,
For limbs benumb'd reject th' inflicted pain;
But mental torments never know their measure,
We grieve the more, because we grieve in vain!

Yet I'll be calm &mdash; Revenge shall calm my anguish:
I'll tear his heart &mdash; He too shall learn to grieve:
Tell him, whilst here in black despair I languish,
Tell him &mdash; O GOD!  Yes! &mdash; Tell him &mdash; I forgive!
