St. Dunstan's bells proclaim departed day,
The weary hacks slow drag the axle-tree;
The 'prentice homeward runs his hasty way,
And leaves the town to dulness and to me.

Now fades the glimmering lamp upon the sight,
And all the air a solemn stillness holds;
Save where the watchman bawls &mdash; "A cloudy night,"
And tipsy rev'ller the shut tavern scolds:

Save that yon victim of a ruffian's pow'r,
Does loudly to the street-patrole complain
Of such as, lurking at this silent hour,
Molest the king of midnight's ancient reign.

Within those gates that iron strong has made,
Where rooms o'er rooms arise in many a heap,
Each in his chamber on a pillow laid,
The law-learn'd benchers of the Temple sleep.

The breezy call of incense-breathing morn,
The swallow twitt'ring from the straw-built shed,
The sheriff's trumpet, or the post-man's horn,
No more shall rouze them from their feather-bed.

In them no more the Muse's fire shall burn,
Or metaphysics be their ev'ning care;
No school-boy's classic triumphs shall return,
Or dulness pine the envied praise to share.

Oft did the grammar to their patience yield,
The Latin oft and stubborn Greek they spoke:
How jocund hied they to the cricket-field!
How flew the ball before their sturdy stroke!

Let not a WAKEFIELD mock their plodding toil,
Their text corrupt, and pedagogue obscure;
Nor PORSON hear, with a disdainful smile,
What stripes a slow-pac'd tyro must endure.

The boast of critic skill may worms devour,
And all that study, all that wit e'er gave,
Await alike th' inevitable hour:
The backs of Russia cannot always save.

Nor you, ye fam'd, impute to these the fault,
If Learning o'er those shelves no volumes raise,
Where oft the book-collector loves to halt,
And LACKINGTON yet swells with his own praise.

Can hot-press'd page, or metzotinto bust,
Back to an author call th' expended sum?
Can Honour's voice engage the Printer's trust,
Or Flatt'ry soothe the dull, cold Debtor's room?

Perhaps in those muse-slighted courts are laid
Some hearts once pregnant with celestial fire;
Hands that the rod of Thespis might have sway'd,
Or wak'd the modern PINDAR'S laughing lyre.

But Themis to their eyes her ample page,
Rich with the spoils of clients, did unroll;
Chill Penury repress'd their classic rage,
Or Beauty warm'd the current of the soul.

Yet many a term a lawyer, too serene,
The briefless bag to Westminster may bear:
Yet many a lover's born to sigh unseen,
Or waste his rhet'rick on th' obdurate fair.

Some NASH, the had alike with dauntless breast,
The little tyrant or the great withstood;
Some mute, inglorious ERSKINE there may rest,
Some SCOTT, ne'er thirsting for a patriot's blood.

Th' applause of list'ning juries to command,
The cause of HARDY and of TOOKE to gain;
To scatter pamphlets o'er the native land,
And read their praises from a foreign pen,

Their lot forbade:  nor circumscrib'd alone
Their growing merit; but their faults confin'd,
Forbade to raise the persecutor's throne,
And shut the gates of freedom on the mind.

The gentle charms of Christian Truth to hide,
To wake her blushes of ingenuous shame,
Heaping the shrine of Bigotry and Pride,
With incense kindled at her sacred flame&mdash;

Far from the wrangling Bar's high-purchas'd strife,
On a back-seat they mark the wordy fray;
Along the Circuit to the vale of life,
They keep the noiseless tenor of their way,

Yet e'en their heads from eve-drops to protect,
Some frail umbrella still erected nigh,
The uncouth wig, as Cloudesley Shovell's deck'd,
Declares a Counsellor is passing by.

Their name, their years, spelt falsely in the news,
The place of Fame and BUONAPARTE supply;
And many a line around the printer strews,
That teach how barristers may wed or die.

But who, to dull law-precedents a prey,
The pleasing cares of Science e'er resign'd;
Left the warm novel, or the well-wrought play,
Nor cast one longing, ling'ring look behind?

On Summer's leisure the fagg'd clerk relies,
Some rural ease the Pleader's health requires;
E'en from the bench the Chief for leisure sighs,
E'en on Welsh mountains live his wonted fires.

Henry!  for thee, who now to Science dead,
Dost on law-folios rest thy classic pate;
If chance, by friendly recollection led,
Some kindred spirit shall enquire thy fate,

Happy some drama-loving wight may say&mdash;
"Oft have I seen him, at the hour of five,
Brushing with hasty steps the dirt away,
For Drury's pit and front-seat to strive:

"There, where a whisper from the stage can reach,
Though for the gaudy pantomime too nigh,
At pompous nothing's would he yawn and stretch,
But mark the eloquence of SIDDON'S eye.

"Hard by yon band, now fiddling as in scorn,
Musing on GODWIN would his fancy rove:
Now drooping, when he thought of men forlorn,
For public weal now slighting private love.

"One eve I miss'd him o'er the custom'd pit,
Along the Critic's seat, near tweedle dee;
Another came; nor where the Gods did sit,
Nor up the slips, nor at half-price, was he.

Next morn, 'twixt lawyers two, in black array,
Slow thro' the hall of Rufus was he borne:
Approach and read (if thou canst read) the lay
Engross'd on parchment from an old deed torn."

THE EPITAPH.
Here rests his head upon a page of COKE
A Youth, to Foplings and to Flirts unknown:
Fair Science frown'd not on the words he spoke,
And Metaphysics mark'd him for their own.

Sound was his judgment, and his soul sincere,
Fortune a recompence did largely send:
He wrote at Colchester full many a year:
He gain'd from Witham, all his wish'd, a Friend.

Nor, PATTISON, his civic faith disclose,
Nor draw his frailties in a wordy brief;
For you alike in trembling hope repose,
To be admitted by my Lord the Chief.
