The shrill Bell rings the Knell of "Curtain rise"
From the thrum'd String the scraping Herd to warn:
Behind the Scenes the plodding Snuffer hies
And leaves the Stage to Operas and to ARNE.

Now strike the glimmering Lamps upon the Sight
And all the House a solemn Stillness holds,
Save where the Seaman from the Gallery's Height,
For Roast Beef bawling, the cue'd Fiddler scolds.

Save that in yonder Velvet-mantled Box
A moping Countess to her Grace complains
Of Macaws, Monkeys, Perroquets, and Shocks;
And Losses "vaist" and "vaistly" paltry Gains.

Behind those rugged Spikes, that Bag-wig's Shade,
Where tuneful Folios lie in many a Heap,
Each in his narrow Line for ever laid,
The embryo Crotchets of THE GUARDIAN sleep.

The long, long Trill of Quaver-torturing Brent,
Miss Hallam twittering from her tender Throat:
Thy Clarion, Beard, that Echo's Ear has rent,
No more shall rouze each lowly-slumbering Note.

For these no more a Parent's Breast shall burn;
His busy Fingers ply their Evening Care;
Poor banish'd Children!  never to return,
Nor their own tender Sire's Applause to share.

Oft did the City Nymphs their Sweetness own,
Their force the stubborn Centinel has broke.
How jocund did they drive the dull Farce down,
When Wit and Sense expir'd without a Joke.

Yet let not Genius mock their useless Toil,
Their transient Honours and their Life not long;
Nor Sense behold with a disdainful Smile,
The short and simple Annals of a Song.

The Pomp of Tragedy, Expression's Pow'r,
And all that Garrick, all that Quin e'er gave,
Have found alike th' inevitable Hour,
And the Fifth Act still led them to the Grave.

Forgive, ye Bards, th' involuntary Fault,
If Love parental shall no Trophies raise,
Where in th' Orchestra's low-sequestered Vault
The Coxcomb Fidler plies his Arm for Praise.

Can pensive ARNE, with animated Strain,
Back to its Audience call his fleeting Play?
Can Music's Voice the Hand of Death restrain,
Or soothing Sounds prolong the fatal Day?

Perhaps, ere this, he many an Opera made,
Which, though not pregnant with celestial Fire,
Might yet, like this, its little Night have sway'd,
And wak'd to Extasy the living Lyre.

But shrill Rehearsal each imprinted Page,
Lavish of Grins, and Squalls, did n'er unroll;
The Hiss contemptuous and the Catcall's Rage
Repress'd the great Ambition of his Soul.

Full many a Book, of purest Page serene,
The high ungenial Cells of Grub-street bear;
Full many a Pamphlet leaves the Press unseen,
In Moorfields dangling to the desart Air.

Some village * * * *, who a Wife's fell Frown,
A vixen Wife with Music has withstood;
Some blind Corelli oft may scrape unknown,
Some ARNE, not guilty of an Opera's Blood.

Th' Applause of listening Boxes to command,
Damnation's Pain and Ruin to dispise;
To scatter Crotchets o'er a fidling Land,
And read their Influence in a Lady's Eyes,

Their Lot forbade; nor circumscrib'd alone
Their tuneful Empire, but their Pride confin'd,
Forbade pert Nonsense to usurp the Throne
Of Taste, and banish Genius from Mankind.

Oft pilfer'd Airs and borrow'd Strains to hide,
To quench the Blushes of ingenuous Shame,
And feed the Fondness of a Fidler's Pride
With dull Pretences to a Muse's Flame.

Far from the merry Wake, and rustic Ball
No vain Pursuits their sober Wishes led;
Along the Streets, and round his Worship's Hall,
They scrap'd the noisy Tenor for their Bread:

Yet still the Blind from Insult to protect,
Some faithful Consort ever wandering nigh
With vary'd Garb, and uncouth'd Pinner deck'd,
Implores the passing Tribute with a Sigh.

Her Ditties oft, tho' an unletter'd Muse,
The Place of Air and Sonnet would supply;
And Songs of Grace at Christmas would she chuse,
Repaid with Luncheons from the Grey-Goose Pye.

For who, so much to Gloominess a Prey,
Whose Spirits Music knows not to advance?
Or who could listen to her Roundelay,
Nor lift one longing, lingering Leg to dance?

On some smart Air the active Heel relies,
Some sprightly Jig the springing Foot requires;
E'en to a March the moving Spirits rise,
E'en in a Minuet wake our youthful Fires.

For Thee, who, mindful of th' unhonour'd Dead,
Dost in these Lines the GUARDIAN'S Tale relate,
If chance, by Love of Elegy misled,
Some kindred Spirit shall enquire thy Fate,

Haply some antiquated Maid may say;
"Oft have we seen him at the Hour of Prayer
Brushing, with hasty Hand, the Dust away
From his rent Cassock and his Beaver bare.

"Oft by the Side of yonder nodding Font
That lifts it's old fantastic Head so high,
To wait the frequent Christ'ning was he wont
And frown upon the Clerk that babbled by.

"Oft in yon Pulpit, smiling as in Scorn,
Muttering his uncouth Doctrines would he preach,
Now drooping, woeful, wan, like one forlorn,
In deep Despair the Mitre's Grace to reach.

"One morn I miss'd him at the Hour of Prayer,
In vain I took my Spectacles to see;
His wonted Surplice did another wear,
Nor in the Vestry, nor the Desk was he.

"The next with Dirges due, in sad Array,
Slow thro' the Church-way Path we saw him brought,
Approach and read (if thou canst read) the Lay,
Which his own Clerk, his Parish Clerk has wrote."

EPITAPH.
"Here rests his Head upon the Lap of Earth
A Curate poor, to Stalls and Tithes unknown;
No Bishop smil'd upon his humble Birth;
No Minister e'er mark'd him for his own.

"Bread was his only Food; his Drink the Brook;
So small a Salary did his Rector send;
He left his Laundress all he had &mdash; a Book;
He found in Death, 'twas all he wish'd, a Friend.

"No farther seek his Wardrobe to disclose,
Nor draw his Breeches from their darksome Cell;
There, like their Master, let them find Repose,
Nor dread the Horrors of a Taylor's Hell."
