St. Paul's proclaims the solemn midnight hour,
The wary Cit slow turns the master-key;
Time-stinted 'prentices up Ludgate scour,
And leave the streets to darkness and to me.

Now glimm'ring lamps afford a doubtful ray,
And scarce a sound disturbs the Night's dull ear;
Save where some rumbling Hack directs its way,
Or frequent tinklings rouse the tavern-bar:

Save that, at yonder iron-grated tow'r,
The watchmen to the constable complain
Of such as, in defiance to his pow'r,
Molest their ancient, solitary reign.

Beneath those butchers stalls, that pent-house shade,
Where rankling offals fret in many a heap,
Each in his nasty stye of garbage laid,
The dext'rous sons of Buckhorse stink and sleep.

The chearful call of "Chair, your honour &mdash; chair,"
Rakes drunk and roaring from the Bedford-Head,
The oaths of coachmen squabbling for a fare,
No more can rouse them from their filthy bed.

For them the blazing links no longer burn,
Or busy bunters ply their evening care;
No Setters watch the muddled Cit's return,
In hopes some pittance of the prey to share.

Oft' to their subtlety the fob did yield,
Their cunning oft' the pocket-string hath broke:
How in dark alleys bludgeons did they wield!
How bow'd the wretch beneath their sturdy stroke!

Let not Ambition mock their humble toil,
Their vulgar crimes and villainy obscure;
Nor rich rogues hear with a disdainful smile
The low and petty knav'ries of the poor.

The titled villain, and the thief in pow'r,
The greatest rogue that ever bore a name,
Await alike th' inevitable hour:
The paths of wickedness but lead to shame.

Nor you, ye proud!  impute to these the fault,
If Justice round their necks the halter fix;
If, from the gallows to their kindred vault,
They ride not pompous in a hearse and six.

Gives not the lordly axe as sure a fate?
Are Peers exempt from mouldering into dust?
Can all the gilded 'scutcheons of the Great
Stamp on polluted deeds the name of Just?

Beneath the gibbet's self perhaps is laid
Some heart once pregnant with infernal fire;
Hands that the sword of Nero might have sway'd,
And 'midst the carnage tun'd th' exulting lyre.

Ambition to their eyes her ample page,
Rich with such monstrous crimes, did n'er unroll;
Chill Penury repress'd their native rage,
And froze the bloody current of the soul.

Full many a youth, fit for each horrid scene,
The dark and sooty flues of chimnies bear;
Full many a rogue is born to cheat unseen,
And dies unhang'd for want of proper care.

Some petty Chartres, that with dauntless breast
Each call of worth or honesty withstood;
Some mute, inglorious Wilmot here may rest;
Some *******, guiltless of his steward's blood.

The votes of venal senates to command,
The worthy man's opinion to despise,
To scatter mischiefs o'er a trusting land,
And read their curses in a nation's eyes,

Their lot forbad; nor circumscrib'd alone
Their grov'ling fortunes, but their crimes confin'd;
Forbad with libels to insult the throne,
And vilify the noblest of mankind.

The struggling pangs of conscious guilt to hide,
To bid defiance to all sense of shame;
Their bleeding Country's sorrow to deride,
And heap fresh fuel on Sedition's flame;

To such high crimes, such prodigies of vice,
Their vulgar wishes ne'er presum'd to soar
Content at wheel-barrows to cogg the dice,
Or pick a pocket at a Play-house door.

Yet e'en these humbler vices to correct,
Old Tyburn lifts his triple front on high;
Bridewell, with bloody whips and fetters deck'd,
Frowns dreadful vengeance on the younger fry.

Their name, their years, their birth and parentage,
(Tho' doubtful all) the Ord'nary supplies;
Points out what first debauch'd their tender age,
And with what words each ripen'd felon dies.

For who, to dumb forgetfulness a prey,
When to the dreadful tree of death consign'd,
But yearns to think upon the fatal day
That first seduc'd to sin his pliant mind?

No soul so callous but remorse may wring,
No heart so hard but grief may teach to sigh;
Contrition forces heartfelt tears to spring,
And melts to tenderness the sternest eye.

For him, the master of the pilf'ring herd,
Whom certain punishment attends, tho' late;
If, when his wretched carcase is interr'd,
Some curious person should enquire his fate;

Haply some hoary-headed thief may say,
"Oft' have I seen him with his lighted link
Guide some unwary stranger cross the way,
And pick his pocket on the kennel's brink.

"There, at the foot of yonder column stretch'd,
Where Seven-Dials are exalted high,
He and his Myrmidons for hours have watch'd,
And pour'd destruction on each passer-by.

"Hard by yon wall, where not a lamp appears,
Skulking in quest of booty would he wait;
Now as a beggar shedding artful tears,
Now smiting with his crutch some hapless pate.

"One night I miss'd him at th' accustom'd place,
The seven-faced Pillar and his fav'rite wall:
Another came, nor yet I saw his face;
The post, the crossings, were deserted all.

"At last, in dismal cart and sad array,
Backward up Holborn-hill I saw him mount:
Here you may read (for you can read, you say)
His Epitaph in th' Ord'nary's Account."

EPITAPH.
Here fest'ring rots a quondam pest of earth,
To virtue and to honest shame unknown;
Low-cunning on a dung-hill gave him birth,
Vice clapp'd her hands, and mark'd him for her own.

Quick were his fingers, and his soul was dark;
In lucky knavery lay all his hope;
No pains he spar'd, and seldom miss'd his mark,
So gain'd ('twas what he merited) a rope.

If further you his villainies would know,
And genuine anecdotes desire to meet,
Go read the story of his weal and woe,
Printed and sold by Simpson, near the Fleet.
