The JUDGES toll the knell of BURDETT'S fame,
The rabble rout disperse with lack of glee;
The Counsel homeward plod just as they came,
And leave the Hall to darkness and to me.

Now fades each fairy prospect on my sight;
All nature now appears to make a pause,
Save where the wits the Chronicle who write
Weave drowsy paragraphs to patch my cause.

Beneath those ancient walls, once vocal made
By vote of thanks, which late I found so cheap,
Indignant JUSTICE bids my laurels fade,
The dull copartners of my folly weep.

For me no more the flaming press shall teem,
Nor busy printers ply their evening care,
No patriots flock to propagate my theme,
Nor lick my feet the ill-got wreath to share.

The fulsome strain of incense-breathing puff,
The snuffman balling to the throng misled;
COBBETT'S foul Register, nor all the stuff
Of weekly scribes, can raise my drooping head.

Oft did the thoughtless to their judgments yield,
Their railings oft disloyal rage provoke;
How jocund each his secret soul reveal'd,
How laugh'd the crowd at ev'ry hackney'd joke!

Now, you ye loyal, fix on them the fault,
If memory to my name no trophies raise,
Where in the ample page with zeal unbought,
The pen historic gives the meed of praise.

Can golden box, tho' worth a hundred pounds,
Back to poor BURDETT bring his forfeit fame?
Can honour's voice now on his side be found,
Or flattery shield him from contempt and shame?

The boast of popularity's short hour,
And all that faction gains by means most base,
Await alike exposure, dreaded power,
The paths of folly lead but to disgrace.

Yes; still my name to rescue from neglect,
Some frail memorials that on bookstalls lie,
With uncouth rhymes and shapeless sculpture deck'd,
Implore the passing tribute of a sigh.

For who, to dumb forgetfulness a prey,
Such pleasing transient laurels e'er resign'd,
Left his proud height, the idol of a day,
Nor cast one longing, ling'ring look behind?

On some frail prop sedition still relies,
Some pious souls its frustrate arm admires,
E'en from the grave its fetid stench will rise,
E'en in its ashes live its wonted fires.

For ye, who mindful of my honours dead,
Do in your lines my hapless tale relate,
If by kind feeling to your office led,
Some crazy patriot shall inquire my fate,

Ah, woe is me!  "some wicked wit will tell,
Oft have we seen him, ere the evening fall,
Brushing with hasty steps along Pall-mall,
To meet LLOYD WARDLE at the House's call.

"There to the nodding Members luckless wights,
In hackney'd strains till midnight would he preach;
'Bout Magna Charta, and the Bill of Rights,
And prate of things far, far, beyond his reach.

"To prison sent, he swore they us'd him ill,
The room was powerless, as all should see;
The trial came, and British Judges still
Refus'd to change the House's just decree.

"And now with judgment due in sad dismay,
He sees himself consign'd to public scorn;
Approach and read, if thou can'st read the lay
Penn'd in the POST, to Jacobins a thorn."

EPITAPH.
Here hides his head, now humbled to the earth,
A man to John Horne and his Faction known;
Fair talents never smil'd upon his birth,
And disappointment mark'd him for her own.

Large were his wishes, but his lot severe,
To TOOKE, he ow'd his fortune and reverse;
He gain'd from JOHN, 'twas all his portion &mdash; shame,
John gained from him, 'twas all he wished &mdash; his purse.

No further seek his merits to disclose,
Or draw his frailties from their dread abode;
Where they have met the awful test he chose,
The judgment of his country and his God.
