The pealing clock proclaims the close of day,
Th' attorney's clerk goes slowly to his tea;
And mine begins to plod his weary way,
And leave my rooms to solitude and me.

Now fades the glitt'ring river on my sight,
And all the air a solemn stillness feels;
Save when the rake wheels round his rapid flight,
And drowsy watchmen follow at his heels.

Save, that from yonder darkly shaded tow'r,
The moping sage does solemnly complain
Of such, as wandering near his lonely door,
Molest his quiet unassuming reign.

Beneath those rugged elms that old tree's shade,
Where ancient seats in many a mould'ring heap
Spread out; where in repose you may be laid
Most sweetly to enjoy the balm of sleep.

Whilst the mild beam which ev'ning does adorn,
The gay young student laughing at your head;
The Postman's bell, or th' echoing horn,
Rouse you no longer from your lowly bed.

For you, the blazing hearth ne'er does burn;
Or, busy housewife ply her ev'ning care:
Or children run to lisp their sire's return,
And climb your knees the envied kiss to share.

But still thy juniors to thy learning yield,
When you put on the stately law peruke,
To prove their arguments are all afield,
And make them bow at your hard stroke.

Perhaps thy ambition mocks their arduous toil,
Their homely joys and destiny obscure;
But, yet, let grandeur hear without a smile,
The short and simple annals of the poor.

But stay &mdash; the boast of heraldry and power,
And all that beauty &mdash; all that wealth e'er gave;
Await alike the th' inevitable hour,
The paths of glory lead but to the grave.

Nor do you, ye proud, whose happiness is grief,
If, of your merit, no trophies you can raise,
To push your fame in many a well-fee'd brief,
And swelling marks of vast increasing praise.

Repine at fate, or with rude passion's gust
Renounce the Law; because 'tis many a year
Since thou'st been call'd, and yet 'tis with disgust
Thou'st not a brief received, thy heart to cheer.

Perhaps, thus neglected thou hast laid,
Whose heart's so pregnant with celestial fire;
Who, if thou'dst been known, th' empire might have sway'd,
Or waked to ecstasy the living lyre.

Fair knowledge to thine eyes, her ample page,
Rich with the spoils of time, may perhaps unroll;
Tho' care hath yet repressed thy noble rage,
And froze the genial current of thy soul.

"Full many a gem of purest ray serene,
The dark unfathom'd caves of ocean bear,
Full many a flow'r is born to blush unseen,
And waste its sweetness on the desart air."

Perhaps thou may'st be he that hath with dauntless breast,
The petty tyrant of his school withstood;
Some mute inglorious Milton thou may'st rest,
Some Cromwell, guiltless of his country's blood;

Th' applause of list'ning senates to command,
The threats of pain and ruin to despise;
To scatter plenty o'er a smiling land,
And read thy hist'ry in a nation's eyes.

Thy lot forbade, nor circumscrib'd alone,
Thy glowing virtues, but thy faults confin'd;
Forbade to wad thro' slaughter to a throne,
And shut the gate of mercy on mankind.

The struggling pangs of conscious truth to hide,
To quench the blushes of ingenuous shame,
Or heap the shrine of luxury and pride,
With incense kindled at the Muse's flame.

Perhaps, from the mad'ning crowds ennobled strife,
Thy sober wishes may have learn'd to stray;
And midst the cool sequester'd vale of life,
Thou'dst keep the noiseless tenor of thy way.

Yet do not think thy wig so sprucely deck'd,
Will ne'er entice a brief that's straying by;
Whose strange and uncouth words its nonsense do protect,
And for it gain the tribute of a sigh.

Thy name, thy years, thy thin and wrinkled face,
Insure success:  thy fame will then supply
A stream of briefs, your fortune to replace,
And wealth, and peace, await you ere you die.

And you, whom dumb forgetfulness and care,
T' anxiety and bitter want resigned:
Will hail with joyous look and altered air,
Th' increasing strength and vigour of your mind.

And when at last thy soul at parting flies,
Some pious drops thy closing eye requires;
E'en from the tomb the voice of nature cries,
E'en in thy ashes live thy wonted fires.

If thou, whom now I've fancied to be dead,
Perceiv'st that I thy tale do now relate;
If chance by lonely contemplation led,
Some kindred lawyer should inquire thy fate.

Haply, some hoary-headed clerk may say,
"Oft have I seen him at the peep of dawn,
Brushing with hasty step the dew away,
To meet the sun upon the grassy lawn.

"There on the bench at yonder nodding beech,
That wreathes its old fantastic branch so high;
His listless length at ev'ning would he stretch,
And gaze upon the tide that's streaming by.

"Hard by yon tree, now smiling as in scorn,
Mutt'ring old law forms he would often rove,
Now drooping, woful, wan, like one forlorn,
Or crazed with care or crossed in hopeless love.

"One eve I missed him at his wonted post,
Upon the bench and near his fav'rite tree;
Another came, I almost thought him lost,
Since on the lawn, not at the stream was he.

"The next with dirges slow, in sad array,
Duly to the grave we saw him borne;
Approach and read, for thou may'st read, the lay
In which his heirs have shown how much they mourn."

EPITAPH.
Here rests his head upon the lap of earth,
A sage to fame and fortune not unknown;
Fair Science nursed him from his very birth,
But Melancholy mark'd him for her own.

Large was his bounty, and his soul sincere,
Heav'n did a recompense as largely send;
He to mis'ry gave each thing but a tear,
He gain'd from Heav'n every thing but a friend.
