Alas, poor TRISTRAM!  has the hand of fate
Thus immaturely stopt thy vital breath!
Had virtue power to lengthen life's short date,
Still SHANDY had escap'd the stroke of death!

Cou'd I, with MASON'S skill, TASTE'S shuttle throw,
And weave gay elegies "in Fancy's loom;"
For thee I'd weave the choicest weeds of woe,
The richest wreaths to hang around thy tomb.

This ART forbids a rude unclassic youth,
Unskill'd in poesy's mechanic part;
Yet, in the name of nature and of truth,
Yet let me speak the language of the heart.

Yes!  TRISTRAM is no more! &mdash; Ye sons of mirth
Albeit unus'd to weep, his death deplore!
Sure at the loss of such transcendent worth,
Those eyes must weep that never wept before.

Oft has the wag, with many a harmless jest,
The lazy, lagging, ling'ring hours beguil'd;
'Till dulness sensibility confest,
And foes to laughter wonder'd why they smil'd.

Who can, like him, the characters maintain,
Of uncle TOBY, or of corp'ral TRIM?
Shou'd any try, he'd find his labour vain,
To play the harlequin of wit, like him.

Nor his alone with comic mirth to charm,
His was each virtue of the social kind;
A heart with every soft affection warm,
Benevolence sincere as unconfin'd.

And as he wont our misery to bewail,
Well cou'd he paint each scene of sad distress;
Steel'd is that breast, which at LE FEVRE'S tale,
Pants not with uncle TOBY to redress.

Strange tho' it seem, such worth cou'd not prevent
The undeserv'd malevolence of man;
And fortune, base as blind, her malice lent
To croud with ills thy life's contracted span.

Experience proves, woes numberless await
On mortals from the cradle to the tomb;
But thine began, oh, unexampl'd fate!
Before thou wast conceived in the womb;

E'en while you lay confin'd in nature's shop,
A fretful mother spoil'd her son's repose;
Nor saw your eyes the light, ere DOCTOR SLOP
Had well nigh marr'd the fabric of your nose.

A name, thy father chose with happiest care,
A name to make thee great in fortune's spite;
But SUSANNA blunders, and lo!  SHANDY'S heir
Instead of TRISMEGISTUS, TRISTRAM hight.,

Oh!  then the gods with pleasure must survey
Great SHANDY "struggling with the storms of fate;"
When to the Fish-pond's side he took his way,
In silent, solemn, philosophic state.

Hence all the future sorrows of thy life!
'Twas hence thy ranc'rous, unrelenting foes,
With careless malice, and successful strife,
Conspir'd to fill the measure of thy woes.

The sound divine, grave doctor, prudish maid,
Thy fame with charge of ribaldry malign'd;
In concert each reviewing, JACK-ASS bray'd,
Each knave thy satire hit, the chorus join'd.

But say, ye grave ones!  what had SHANDY done?
&mdash;He made you laugh &mdash; oh!  terrible offence!
Thus to be chous'd, by humour's frolic son,
Of Gravity, sham substitute of Sense!

Nor slighted only by the grave and dull,
Thy friends too, indiscreet, commenc'd thy foes;
The wits, (too prone are wits to play the fool)
Still rudely pull'd thy whiskers and thy nose.

But now thou'rt landed on th' Elysian shore,
Where neither critics, wits, or fools molest;
Hermes conducted thee to Rablais' bow'r;
Oh!  how was Rablais ravish'd with his guest!

There shall Cervantes, humour's grand high-priest,
With Lucian, solemnize the rites of mirth,
There Swift, her dean, shall at those rites assist,
As fond of Bagatelle as when on earth.

For me &mdash; when spleen's black horrors shall assail,
To thee for certain succour I will fly;
Careless tho' prudery or dulness rail;
Where G&mdash;r's prelate laughs why may not I?

Light lie the mouldring turf upon thy breast!
And lest some witless sexton should presume
To touch the ground where SHANDY'S ashes rest,
May this memorial mark thy sacred tomb.

THE EPITAPH.
Know readers all!  who know to read aright,
Beneath this stone doth TRISTRAM SHANDY lie!
In troth he was a most egregious wight,
He'd make the gravest laugh, the merriest cry.

He gave to misery (all he had) a tear,
But freely us'd, for sorrow's balm, a joke:
At length he fell, thro' treatment too severe,
He fell a prey to death's untimely stroke.

His works, his failings and his worth disclose,
And reader!  when you see his hobby-horse,
Wish, for the world's advantage and repose,
No mortal man may ever ride a worse.
