The last long echo of the midnight bell
Sweeps with dull roar across the barren heath:
Enwrapt in thought, I bid the world farewell,
And seek with trembling step th' abode of Death.

On iron hinge the door grates harsh; the wind
Pours through the trees a melancholy sound;
While Fancy, rousing with strange awe the mind,
Calls Contemplation terror-wing'd around.

Say, whence this secret fear of things unknown,
This sudden horror and resistless dread,
That chills my bosom as I trace alone
The grave's dull monuments, the silent dead?

Why should I fear to tread this thick'ning gloom?
Or why this wild emotion seize my frame?
A solemn myst'ry hovers round the tomb,
The consciousness of things I dare not name.

Beyond that yew-tree shade, still seem to glide
The grisly tenants of the darksome tomb,
Their shadowy forms flit past in silent pride,
And blame the steps that visit their dull home.

See, how on high their meagre arms they wave!
See, how their eyeless sockets seem to glare!
They wave my trembling footsteps from the grave,
And tread sublime upon the viewless air.

And we are spirits, though on earth confin'd,
Imprison'd in this tenement of clay:
The body drops; then soars th' immortal mind
Mid other spirits of celestial ray.

We are surrounded by the world of souls;
Attendant spirits fly around unseen;
Our mortal state alone the mind controuls,
And hides the beings of immortal mien.

Enthron'd in certain mystery of fate
Death sits, and summons to his court mankind;
Subjects and kings, in melancholy state,
Hear the stern call, and leave the world behind.

Sceptres and mitres, coronets and crowns,
The conqueror's laurel, and the poet's wreath,
Alike the monarch's and the peasant's bones,
Strew the long road, and mark the way to death.

Propp'd by this marble tomb around I see
Confus'dly scatter'd near, without a plan,
The mould'ring relics of mortality,
The liveliest monitors to thoughtless man.

There lies a youth, whose disappointed pride
Urg'd to tremendous deeds the daring soul,
Ambition's potent laws his only guide,
His only aim ambition's luring goal.

Visions of grandeur, and immortal, fame,
Strew'd with delusive flow'rs life's blissful way,
But, lightning-wing'd, stern Disappointment came,
And rang'd her adverse ills in long array.

Contempt exulted, and with iron frown
Abash'd the youth, o'erwhelm'd with conscious grief;
Reason's loud calls Despair and Pride disown,
And urge the sullen soul to base relief.

If life begin in misery and woe,
"How sad must life conclude!" the suff'rer cried;
Rous'd to the desp'rate deed, the fatal blow
He struck, and with remorseless anguish died!

Teach me, Almighty Power, to bear the woes,
Which wait on life, and rise at thy command;
Ne'er let me seek within the grave repose,
Nor check Death's long delay with impious hand.

There, in the distant shade so deep and dull,
Close by the side of his domestic tomb,
Is thrown with careless scorn a parent's skull,
To give the remnant of his offspring room.

There, through the branches of yon cheerless yew,
In sov'reign majesty the Queen of Night,
With lustre back reflected by the dew,
Pours on these sod-clad graves her pensive light.

And those, who sleep below, in life's gay bloom,
At summer eve, or in the pride of spring,
Heedless of cares that cloth'd their age in gloom,
Around this tree have form'd the festive ring.

And still in spring the village children come
With lightsome steps at evening's tranquil hour,
Unconscious sport upon a parent's tomb,
There join the dance, or pluck the radiant flow'r.

But these, when smiling infancy is past,
And manhood claims the tenants of the soil,
Must bear alike misfortune's varied blast,
Labour, and want, and poverty, and toil.

Let not presumption say, the poor alone,
Alone the rich, have joy or sorrow here;
The checquer'd scenes of life to each are known,
Howe'er diversified its active sphere.

There slowly crawling o'er the flesh-fed soil,
To seek yon new-turn'd earth the graves among,
Wreathing his length in many a twining coil,
The tardy earthworm drags his form along.

Child of corruption, truly dost thou seek
With mortal appetite thy destin'd prey;
There thou shalt fatten on a lovely cheek,
And glut thy noisome length with virgin clay.

In yonder new-made grave, consumption-worn
The gay, the great, the lov'd Eliza lies:
Foul reptile, gorge upon the proud high-born,
Nor spare the beauty of thy youthful prize.

There penetrate, there sweetly feed, dig deep,
Pierce the sunk eyes, and revel on the breast;
The fair one at thy banquet will not weep,
Nor rival lovers claim thy nauseous feast.

Attend ye gay, ye proud, who love to tread
The paths of joy, by pleasure's train ador'd:
Ye too must bow, and mingle with the dead,
The grave your home, the reptile worm your lord.

And when, soft streaming on the dewy air,
The song of pleasure lifts your courage high,
With bliss eternal earthly joys compare,
But think on Death's dread hour, and learn to die.

