The bell tolls six, the knell of parting day,
To spend the ev'ning patriot souls agree,
Illuminations brighten o'er the way,
And bid the dim ey'd sons of faction flee.

Here Wilkes and Liberty is heard abroad,
There Glyn and Freedom shake the ambient air,
Here slily filchers of the eve maraud,
The English smile, and envious Scotsmen stare:

Save that in yonder quiet silent place,
A wary Scot employs Astrea's scales,
Impartially examines either case,
And finds true freedom in the south prevails.

Beneath these plain and feet-oppressed stones,
Now undistinguish'd in promiscuous heap,
Industrious citizens, and lazy drones,
The surly fathers of the parish, sleep.

The hoarse, rough chimney-sweeping call of morn,
Or shriller tenor of the milk maid's note;
The brick-dust ass's bray &mdash; the mail-cart horn
No more shall rouse them with the varied throat.

For them no more shall toasted muffins smoke,
The dreaded task no more the 'prentice fear;
No more their dames their horned foreheads stroke,
Nor children tremble at their brow severe.

Yet those shall live, in memory at least,
Who true to Liberty, her standard rear'd,
Despis'd the tamp'ring of a courtly feast,
Nor ministerial despotism fear'd.

Let not ambition mock the city toil,
Their thrifty joys &mdash; and happiness obscure,
Nor barter fancied freedom for a smile,
Nor arbitrary insolence endure.

The boast of civil rule &mdash; the Lord mayor's power,
And all that wealth to Aldermen e'er gave,
Await alike the desolating hour,
Great Guildhall's grandees sink into the grave.

Virtues, to all, shou'd monuments impute,
Tho senseless stone must needs be taught to lie,
For can just praises H&mdash;'s actions suit,
Who cou'd the laws of liberty defy:

Can fallacies in prose or verse recall,
A custard-eating Alderman to life,
To talk of politics, or stuff at hall,
Prescribe to statesmen, and submit to wife.

&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;*&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;*&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;*&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;*&mdash;&mdash;&mdash;

For thee, who of the known, or unknown dead,
Doth (insignificantly) tales relate:
Prompted by whim, should some grave cit be led,
And wish to know the story of thy fate:

Happy some former intimate may say,
"Oft have I seen him at the peep of dawn,
From some lewd brothel take his weary way,
Sick of the harlots who for payment fawn.

"At Weatherby's and Murphy's often times,
With wine elated, have I known him be,
To trace out objects for politic rhymes,
And there reflected till he could not see.

"Maudlin, by morning then he'd homeward steer,
And bravely beat each post that crost his path,
Secur'd with wine, and liberty from fear,
Defy the ministerial men of Lath.

"One morn I miss'd him at th' accustom'd place,
I sought another, and another still,
In no old haunt could I his footsteps trace,
So drank a chearful bumper, and sate still.

"Next day, by bucks, in sable garments clad,
Towards the church I saw him slowly borne:
The scene, I must confess, was wondrous sad,
To see the maudlin libertinians mourn."

Upon his grave, in each revolving year,
To drink a bumper they by oath are bound:
Give Wilkes, Glynn, Horne, and Liberty a chear,
And pray that Heaven may all their foes confound.
